Velocity HOURLY (#99)
aodn/python-aodntools: aodntools/timeseries_products/Documentation/velocity_hourly_timeseries.md

> # Velocity Aggregated Time Series Product

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Velocity Hourly Time Series Product
```

- [Objective](#objective)
- [Input](#input)
- [Method](#method)
- [Output](#output)

## Objective

> This product provides aggregated quality controlled U, V, and W velocity time-series files for each mooring site, without any interpolation or filtering, except for the exclusion of the out-of-water data, binned into 1-hour intervals. For the profiling (ADCP) instruments, the absolute depth of the measuring cell is calculated using the `DEPTH` measured at the instrument and the `HEIGHT_ABOVE_SENSOR`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This product provides aggregated quality controlled U, V, and W velocity time-series files for each mooring site, binned into 1-hour intervals, including only in-water data flagged as "good" or "probably good" in the input files. QC flags will not be included. Statistics related to the averaging process will be stored as variables (standard deviation, minimum and maximum values, number of records binned). For the profiling (ADCP) instruments, the absolute depth of the measuring cell is calculated using the `DEPTH` measured at the instrument and the `HEIGHT_ABOVE_SENSOR`.
```

## Input

The aggregation function will accept a list of input files, and the code of the mooring site (`site_code`), in addition to arguments that identify the path of input and output files.

The code aggregates variables and files that meet the following requirements:

- File contains data from only one deployment of one instrument;
- File is a delayed-mode, quality-controlled product (file version label “FV01”);
- File is compliant with CF-1.6 and IMOS-1.4 conventions;
- File contains, at the minimum, the components of current velocity (`UCUR`, `VCUR`), and variables `TIME`, `DEPTH`, `LATITUDE`, `LONGITUDE`, and `HEIGHT_ABOVE_SENSOR` in the case of ADCPs;
- All files to be aggregated are from the same site, and have the same `site_code` attribute; 
- Variables to be aggregated have `TIME` and (optionally) `HEIGHT_ABOVE_SENSOR` as their only dimensions (or if `LATITUDE` and `LONGITUDE` are included as dimensions, they have size 1);
- The in-water data are bounded by the global attributes `time_deployment_start` and `time_deployment_end`;

> 

Reviewer: Might need to add this if it is so decided:
The `TIME` variable has an attribute `seconds_to_middle_of_measurement` to indicate the offset from each recorded timestamp to the centre of the averaging period.

from ONE site

optional arguments:
  -h, --help                    show this help message and exit
  -site SITE_CODE               site code, like NRMMAI
  -files FILENAMES              name of the file that contains the source URLs
  -indir INPUT_DIR              base path of input files
  -outdir OUTPUT_DIR            path where the result file will be written. Default ./
  -download_url DOWNLOAD_URL    path to the download_url_prefix
  -opendap_url OPENDAP_URL      path to the opendap_url_prefix

```

### Input file validation

Before proceeding to the aggregation, each input file will be checked to ensure it meets the requirements (as specified above under Inputs). Any input files that fail to meet the requirements will be excluded from the aggregation, and their URL listed in a global attribute `rejected_files`.

### Dimensions

The dimensions of the resulting file  are determined as follows:

- `OBSERVATION`:    the total number of observation records, excluding out-of-the-water data, in all input files;
- `INSTRUMENT`:     the number of instruments (i.e. number of files);
- `strlen`:         a fixed dimension of length 256 for character array variables.

### Variables

> Only values flagged as “good” or “probably good” are included. The velocity variables are produced by flattening, and concatenating the arrays in each of the input files. The time of the measurement is shifted according to the seconds_to_middle_of_measurement attribute. The values are then averaged into one-hour time bins (independently within each depth cell for ADCPs). The resulting variables have dimension `OBSERVATION`. 

Reviewer: > The time of the measurement is shifted according to the seconds_to_middle_of_measurement attribute

This is currently _not_ done in the code. Need to make sure they're consistent when we're done.
